# MODEL1006230040: Yang2006_Methadone_PKmodel

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL1006230040.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL1006230040.git@20140916`


# Model Notes


This a model from the article:  
**Population-based analysis of methadone distribution and metabolism using an age-dependent physiologically based pharmacokinetic model.**   
Yang F, Tong X, McCarver DG, Hines RN, Beard DA. _J Pharmacokinet Pharmacodyn_
2006 Aug;33(4):485-518 [16758333](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16758333)
,  
**Abstract:**   
Limited pharmacokinetic (PK) and pharmacodynamic (PD) data are available to
use in methadone dosing recommendations in pediatric patients for either
opioid abstinence or analgesia. Considering the extreme inter-individual
variability of absorption and metabolism of methadone, population-based PK
would be useful to provide insight into the relationship between dose, blood
concentrations, and clinical effects of methadone. To address this need, an
age-dependent physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) model has been
constructed to systematically study methadone metabolism and PK. The model
will facilitate the design of cost-effective studies that will evaluate
methadone PK and PD relationships, and may be useful to guide methadone dosing
in children. The PBPK model, which includes whole-body multi-organ
distribution, plasma protein binding, metabolism, and clearance, is
parameterized based on a database of pediatric PK parameters and data
collected from clinical experiments. The model is further tailored and
verified based on PK data from individual adults, then scaled appropriately to
apply to children aged 0-24 months. Based on measured variability in CYP3A
enzyme expression levels and plasma orosomucoid (ORM2) concentrations, a
Monte-Carlo-based simulation of methadone kinetics in a pediatric population
was performed. The simulation predicts extreme variability in plasma
concentrations and clearance kinetics for methadone in the pediatric
population, based on standard dosing protocols. In addition, it is shown that
when doses are designed for individuals based on prior protein expression
information, inter-individual variability in methadone kinetics may be greatly
reduced.

This model was taken from the [CellML
repository](http://www.cellml.org/models) and automatically converted to SBML.  
The original model was: [ **Yang F, Tong X, McCarver DG, Hines RN, Beard DA.
(2006) - version=1.0**
](http://models.cellml.org/exposure/c7e702135fe100ec03a7ec66adcc98f5)  
The original CellML model was created by:  
**Catherine Lloyd**   
c.lloyd@auckland.ac.nz  
The University of Auckland  

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/). It is copyright (c)
2005-2011 The BioModels.net Team.  
To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

In summary, you are entitled to use this encoded model in absolutely any
manner you deem suitable, verbatim, or with modification, alone or embedded it
in a larger context, redistribute it, commercially or not, in a restricted way
or not..  
  
To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Nov√®re N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)


